So we're making good progress here.
Now let's just make sure that we can submit this form and that validation works correctly especially
when we're thinking about these states now for the forum submission.
I got this button here with type submit and they offer on the wrapping form element.
We can add energy submit and then reference a method that should be executed when the form is submitted.
And here this will be my on book place method since I'm using the template driven approach.
I want to forward a reference to my form.
So again at that local reference here f and I could now use this energy form assignment again and pass
it here as an argument but I'll actually not do that.
I will still assign energy for meter because I absolutely need access to Dad form object angular created
behind the scenes but I'll access it differently in the typescript file because I will actually not
just need access to that form here in on book place but also in another function which I'll add which
is there to validate my controls because right now when I want to disable my button here when the form
is invalid I can of course do this as before by checking if not f is valid and F instead local reference
I just added No I can't do that.
But the problem we face is dead.
If there's reloads here let me show what the problem is.
No matter which date mode I enter can enter something here that looks good.
It's like free guests or 2 or 1 doesn't matter.
And now let's select a date and now let me pick the last date first but say we have February the first
year and then I pick a from date that is actually March 1st and that works due to how my pickers work.
And yes you could try to add more complex logic to see which picture was changed to then update the
other picture but I don't have that logic here.
So now I effectively have a combination that's not possible.
The from date is after the to date and yet this is enabled and I constantly checked as with my normal
validation directives.
So I will write my own helper function here in a typescript code where I want to compare dates manually
and pass back the information whenever that date selections valid or not.
And for this I need to be able to read the date values which I can do by getting access to the forum
and you can get access to any element in your template with the ET view child decorator and that is
a normal angular feature not related to ionic you need to be imported from ET Angela core.
And this allows you to define selector up here not as C as s selector though but for example the name
of one of your local references.
So f in my case if I would have named this differently here in the template up there if it would have
named a differently here than I would have to use that name here.
Now this is my form and it is of type energy form which you need to import from at angular forms.
And now I have access to the form here in my entire typescript file and therefore I can now add a little
helper utility method in here.
Which all name dates valid
where I will get my start date that was selected by using this form value and then I'm looking for dates
dash from and here you should choose the name which you chose in your template.
So I simply chose date from end date to here.
So these are the names I'll use down there and that is a string I need a date object here.
So let's wrap this into a new date call and then I want to get my end date in the same way.
So a new date for this form value date 2.
And here I now just return the result for comparison I compare if and date is greater then start date
and only if that is the case this is valid.
And now if dates valid added here back in the form I can use this validation on the button to sew the
button is disabled.
If the form is not valid or if not dates valid now with that let's see if it works by going back and
checking that logic again here.
Select the dates fill valid values into all the other inputs and then a year for two all select February
the 1st and then I'll pick a starting date.
That is after February and indeed now it is disabled until I pick a valid end date again.
So this looks better.
Now we can also use the booked button of course that works it triggers the already existing on book
place method.
But now let's also make sure we extract the data here and pass it back to the component that actually
opened this modal in on book plays.
I first of all want to add validation again and I want to check if not form is valid.
This form is valid or if not dates which this dates valid.
So if either of the two is not valid I'll return because maybe you manually enabled the button any developer
tools and submitted the form through that.
Well I'm not playing that the game.
I'm not giving you access.
So if you made a positive check the inputs are valid and then I want to pass that data back to whoever
opened that modal previously I passed this dummy message.
Now we can pass back more useful things we can pass back our booking data here and you can named as
key whoever you want and that will be an object where I want to have the key value pairs containing
the values entered by the user like the first name which is this forum value and then we access the
first name input or a control and I mentioned this before but it is important that keys you're targeting
here of course have to match the names you chose in your template.
So here I choose first name written like this as a name.
Hence this is my key here.
And because of the Dash I have to use the square brackets notation.
I also have my last name here.
So this form value last name.
Then we have the guest number here which is this form value.
Let's see what did I choose stare.
I chose guest number as a name so we should use that here as well.
Guest number and then we have our dates.
And there we have to start date which is this forum value date from.
And then we have the end date which of course is this forum value swaps form value value date to that
is the date I want to pass back.
Now in the place where I opened at modal so in the place detail page there I present the model and I
do already locked the date I get back.
So we should see that data once I now submit a valid model.
So let's go with the random date so that I don't have to fill this out manually and I'll enter my name
here.
I'm coming with my partner and I booked this and here is our booking data.
And this looks good I'd say looks good to me should be the data I entered.
So this is now the last form I want to work on in this module.